The Economic Survey, December 2025, will be published on December 4\. Some of the key figures in The Economic Survey contains market sensitive information. These figures are published ahead of The Economic Survey. 


The estimates of the central government net and gross financing requirements for 2025 and 2026 can be found in *table 1* below. The gross financing requirement has been revised to DKK 141 billion in 2025 and DKK 109 billion in 2026\. The gross financing requirement is the sum of the net financing requirement, repayment of government debt, transactions in state funds, and purchases of various bonds for special purposes.


The gross financing requirement is met by debt issuance or by drawing on the central government’s account at Danmarks Nationalbank. 


[The financing strategy is published by Danmarks Nationalbank on the website of the government debt management office](https://www.nationalbanken.dk/en/what-we-do/government-debt)



<table><tbody><tr><th>Table 1. Central government net and gross financing requirements</th></tr><tr><th><strong>August 2025     </strong></th><th><strong>December 2025 <br/></strong></th></tr><tr><th><strong>2025</strong></th><th><strong>2026</strong></th><th><strong>2025</strong></th><th><strong>2026</strong></th></tr><tr><td><strong>Dkk billion 1)</strong></td></tr><tr><th><strong>Net financing requirement</strong></th><th>4</th><th>37</th><th>1</th><th>15</th></tr><tr><td>Repayment of long term debt 2)</td><td>95</td><td>40</td><td>110</td><td>34</td></tr><tr><td>Repayment of short term debt 3)</td><td>8</td><td>25</td><td>8</td><td>20</td></tr><tr><td>Net purchase of state owned funds</td><td>-0</td><td>-0</td><td>-0</td><td>-0</td></tr><tr><td>Net purchase of bonds for special purposes 4)</td><td>25</td><td>41</td><td>23</td><td>41</td></tr><tr><th><strong>Gross financing requirement<br/></strong></th><th>132</th><th>142</th><th>141</th><th>109</th></tr></tbody></table>



1\) Rounding may cause component sums to deviate from totals.  
  
2\) Incl. payments from the central government in cross\-currency swaps and buybacks of long\-term debt with maturity date beyond the current year.  
  
3\) Repayment of short\-term debt corresponds to the outstanding amount of Treasury bills and commercial paper in the beginning of the year.  
  
4\) Net purchases of bonds for special purposes includes public housing bonds, bonds for financing of private nursing homes and KommuneKredit bonds.   
  
Source: The Economic Survey, August 2025 and The Economic Survey, December 2025\.